There was something about doors.


Once you go through them, everything changes.


If you close them, things also change.


Doors were a good place to get killed.  But also a place for new beginnings.


Torah never took doors for granted.  That's why he led with his PX-190's hud integrated scope.


It was a greenhouse.  Lit by flickering light.  It was night.  No other movement.  


He stepped inside, leaving the door open for the rest of the squad.


The squad leader, Brooks, shook her head.  “Canary rules.  You scout the anomaly.”


Torah nodded without comment as she closed the door.


He swept the interior.  There was a ring of bodies in the center, clustered around a burning plant.  The bush glowed bright green in the fire, unconsumed.  All around it was ash, the remnants of its neighbors.


The heat was intense as he neared.  There was something building in his forehead.  A pressure, like a mountain was being stuffed inside the small cavity of his skull.


His hands relaxed on his weapon.  No visible threat, just the anomaly.  And bullets were no help here.


He slowly approached.  As he neared the ring of bodies, the pressure increased.  His head pounded.  His heart thudded hard, jarring beats.  He thought of the mall.  But it wouldn’t be like that this time.


He crouched down and felt a body’s throat.  Shallow breath, heart slow.  Alive.


He pressed closer, and ran into a wall of intense heat.  It wasn’t gradual.  It slammed into him like a wave.  He fell to his knees.


With the heat came something else.  As he closed his eyes against the searing pain, he saw. 


A garden.  Greener than this greenhouse.  Greener than life.  Water so pure it surpassed distillation.  Then a flaming sword descended on it.  He was hurled out from the garden.  All he could see was the flame.  And inside.  Eyes.  They locked on him.


I am.  


The voice wasn’t large.  It wasn’t quiet.  It was all he could hear.


He came back to himself some time later, still kneeling.  The plant before him was green as ever.  As though the fire never was.  The ashes of its siblings told otherwise.  He felt cold, bereft of the searing heat.


His radio chirped.  “Torah, status.”


He examined his hand as it took the radio.  Expecting burns.  Unmarked flesh instead.  Not unmarked.  A tattoo was etched on the back of his hand.  A stylized burning bush.


“Anomaly… gone.  We have casualties.”


The team swept in.  Clearing angles.  Then they collapsed in on the unconscious people.


Brooks had a scanner she held up to an old man.  “Zero symbolic energy.   That can't be right…”


She tried several more, then scanned Torah.  Her earpiece let out a wail that was audible to him, and she pulled it out, cursing.  A moment later she dropped the scanner as smoke started rising from it, its plastic melting.


“It… marked me.”  Torah said, showing her the symbol.


“Shit.  That's the highest I've ever seen the meter go before it died.”  She gave him a sympathetic look.


“I guess we're taking you to quarantine.  There will be tests…”


“What will be, will be.”  He said simply.  “I accepted my fate before I took this job.”


Briefly a mall filled his mind.  He shut the thought down.


He rode back in a lead lined trailer.  There were restraints meant more for cargo than bodies.  He made do.


He measured time by the stops.  First, the streets.  Then a long gap as they took the highway.  Slowing, turning.  Finally, a stop he knew was the base.


If all was normal they would have proceeded straight.  Instead they went left and took a circuitous route.  To quarantine.


He felt when they unhitched the trailer.  Then more waiting.  Torah was good at waiting.  That's why he'd made a good security guard.  That's why he made a good field agent now.  Or had.  He wondered if he'd ever be outside a lab again.


If he could better serve as a test subject, so be it.  It wasn't about what he wanted.  It was about what mankind needed.


Right now it needed answers.  Why had the symbolic events increased recently?  In severity as well as frequency.  What caused them?  No one knew.


Theories and speculation were plentiful.  Evidence conflicted.  Testimony left more questions than answers.


He became aware of the door moving.  A plastic tunnel led from the cargo hold to the nearby building.  They weren't taking any chances.


As he stepped out he saw people in hazmat suits waving him in.  He went.


The outer door led directly to a holding room.  Bathroom facilities, well stocked, a bed that looked reasonably comfortable.  A Bible.  That was a personal touch, he assumed.  He didn't believe, but many on the science team did.  Did now, regardless of what they'd thought before.


He sat on the bed, waiting.  Nothing.  After a time the lights dimmed.  He guessed they didn't know what to do with him yet.


Like a soldier, Torah never passed a chance for sleep.  His dreams were always of the same place.


He woke from his nightmare to something cracking underneath him.  There was light.  Bright, dancing on the walls.


The superheated metal remnants of his bed collapsed.  The light was… him.  He was on fire.  But not burning.  Still clothed.


A moment later sprinklers cut on.  The water hissed in the intense flame.  Humidity filled the room.


His heart had been pounding from the dream.  Thoughts racing.


Strangely, he found his mind drawn to that perfect garden.  Green and temperate.


As his heartbeat eased, so did the flames.


Leaving him to get drenched in the sprinklers.


CHAPTER 2


The overhead speaker crackled, stuttered, and died.  Some time later a voice shouted out from the other side of the wall.


“Torah, what's your status?”  It was Brooks.  Guess they wanted a familiar face.


Cupping his hands in front of his mouth, he called, “No longer on fire, sir.”


The door hissed open for the first time.  Brooks was clad in a gortex fire resistant hazmat suit, followed by two men he didn't recognize.  


“How are you holding up?” Brooks asked.


“Better than my bed did.”


“Any idea what sparked the anomaly?” One of the men piped up.


Torah scratched his hand behind his head.  No point lying.


“Nightmare.”


“Do you often experience nightmares?” The man asked.


Torah sighed, giving Brooks a look.  She shrugged apologetically.


“Same one every night.”


“And could you describe-”


“I think that's enough questions on that subject, doctor.” Brooks interrupted.  Torah gave her a grateful look.


“Well, we can prescribe a medication that will help.”


“They never have before.”


A glinting shone in the second mans eyes.  He spoke up for the first time.  


“This one will.”


CHAPTER 3
Since he was awake, it was time for tests.  He was grateful there was no guard.  Unless Brooks counted.  He wasn't sure.


“Is this your job now?” He asked quietly.  


She shrugged.  “I go where they say.”


“Official babysitter duty.”  He mused.


“Dont sell yourself short.  You're the biggest baby I've ever seen.”


Torah snorted.


They reached the lab.


The third man bid them farewell.  The first, the scientist?  Opened the door.  It looked like the lab in any doctor's office.  Centrifuge, fridge with samples,  sharps container.


Except for the reinforced chamber in the back.  It looked like a pressure room for divers, but the metal was a foot thick.


A slimmer figure stood up from a chair, also clad in the same suit the others wore.  She placed a dog-eared novel on the counter.


“My assistant,” said the doctor.  No names still.


“Were going to start with a blood sample.”  He gestured to the chamber.  “For our own safety, we'll be working in there.”


The assistant, a woman, grabbed a syringe and some metal vials.  The sacrificial lamb, she was the one to go into the chamber with him.


“Do you have a good vein?” She asked.  He proffered his left arm.  She tied a band around, and he pumped his hand a few times.


The needle went in easily.  She was good at this.  But that was when normalcy ended.  The needle started to glow white hot.  She dropped the vial as it lit up as well.  They stared at it.  Bit by bit, the glow faded.  All told it took 10 minutes before she could pick it up with gloved hands.


Brooks rapped on the glass.


“Smoke break?”


“You know I don't smoke,” Torah said.


“Your bed begs to differ.”


The assistant accompanied them to a ventilated break room.  A faint scent of industrial air freshener permeated.


Brooks took off the helmet of her suit, hair plastered to her scalp.


“Damn, that thing is stuffy.”


Hesitantly, the assistant followed suit.  She was pretty in a thin, waifish sort of way.  Her eyes were a bit wider than usual.


As Brooks fished out a pack and lighter, she asked, “Can I have one of those?”


Brooks handed her one and lit it for her.  The assistant held it in trembling fingers.  She immediately coughed on it.


“First one?”  Brooks asked.


“Second if you count the one in high school,” she said.


Brooks puffed away.  Torah found his thoughts drifting.  The acrid smell of the cigarettes was not the pipe smoke of his grandfather's Cavendish.  For a moment, he wished he had a pipe.  Not for the nicotine, but for the reminder.


They returned to the lab.  A centrifuge was spinning.  Torah noticed every 7th cycle there was a hitch.


A new machine was in the room.  Torah thought it was a portable MRI.


The doctor seemed a little flustered in his suit. Red-cheeked. Hair damp against his scalp.


“We’re going to scan you across multiple spectra now.”


The X-rays resolved into a galaxy. Not noise. Not artifact. Spiral arms, luminous core.


“That’s not possible,” someone said quietly.


The MRI output collapsed into a mandelbrot. Recursive. Infinite zoom. No boundary conditions.


IR was off the charts. The sensor clipped and reset. Then clipped again.


The printer in the corner chattered. 


Stopped.


The doctor didn’t look at the page at first.
When he did, he went very still.


“The bloodwork is… in Hebrew.”


He stormed out.


CHAPTER 4
They broke for lunch.  Torah hadn't had breakfast, so they were served brunch.  French toast casserole, quiche, coffee.


Say what you would about the Institute.  They served good food.


“Cookie outdid himself today,” Brooks said nonchalantly.  “Maybe you should get yourself symbolicized more often.”


They were back in the break room.  Alone, but for the nurse.  She was probably with them for good.  Cross-contamination and all that.  She picked at her food.


“What's your name, by the by?” Brooks asked her.


“Maeve.” She responded quietly.


“How'd you get this shit detail?”


“I don't have kids.”


There was silence but for the sound of eating for a while.


Brooks spoke quietly to Torah.


“This doesn't have to end your career, you know.  I've heard rumors that some… anomalous individuals get special task forces.  I've requested for yours.”


Torah raised his eyebrows.  “Didn't know you cared, Brooks.”


“Hey, I'm just in it for the fireworks.”


“What about the squad?”


“You know Simmons has been gunning for my spot.  I think I'll let him have it.”


Torah paused.  “But why?”


An unusually earnest look came across her face. 


“I think something important is happening to you, Torah.  Something big. Field agent is small potatoes compared to that.”


“And if they locked me up forever?”


“Then I'll arm wrestle Simmons into submission.”


They were brought to a different room.  A small conference area.  A rabbi, a priest, and an imam were present.


They all started speaking at once, words incomprehensible.  Torah felt heat on his tattoo.


“Gentlemen, please.” The imam said loudly.  “One at a time.  Order of prophets only seems fair.”  


The rabbi gave a nod.  “Thank you,”


He proceeded to recite something in Hebrew.  Torah felt a tingle, high and sharp.


The rabbi looked expectant.  “Kind of felt something.” Torah said.


The priest recited something in Latin.  The tingle again, slightly lower in frequency.  


“Different that time.”


The imam took his turn in Arabic.  Lower frequency.  


“All three had an effect, but different.  The biggest reaction was when you were all speaking at once.  What were you reciting?”


“Genesis.” The priest responded.


The three looked to each other and nodded.


Each began to recite, but more in synchronization.  It was like a chord played on his tattoo, it resonated.


“Look.”  Brooks said.


The flames on his tattoo were dancing.


In that moment, Torah felt something.  Something on the edge of his mind.  A pressure building.  He tuned out the voices and listened to the vibration.


As it snapped into his mind, the pressure vanished.


Heatless flame danced on his right hand.


CHAPTER 5
The tests intensified.


After describing the sensation, he was instructed to move the flame along his body.


He learned that the flame followed the chord. Louder meant hotter. Not louder in his ears — louder in his bones.


When he brought it to his sternum, the air shimmered.


“Hold,” someone said.


He held.


“Now center.”


He hesitated. Then did it.


When the flame touched his heart, his body went white-hot. Not burning. Not pain. Pressure. Light. The room disappeared at the edges.


Someone shouted.


The chord collapsed.


He came back to himself on one knee, breath ragged, Brooks’ hand on his shoulder.


They brought him back to his room.  A cup of water and a cup of pills was handed to him.


Torah didn't ask what they were.  He swallowed them down.  He lay on the futon they provided this time. Cheaper if he melted it. 


He knew he should keep his conditioning up.  Get some reps.  But was too tired.


He dreamed of Eden.  No fire.  It felt closer this time.


Time passed in a blur.  More tests.  Then things changed from questions to drills.


He learned to shift fire to his hands as he was striking.  Kicks, elbows, knees.  After the third destroyed heavy bag they switched to large blocks of ice.  He was getting expensive for the institute.


Guns didn't work out.  They tended to jam, spark, and sometimes melted outright.  Once, he detonated a whole magazine.


Brooks trained with him.  At first in the gortex suit.  As his control rose, she lost protection.  


She'd always had him on technique.  He'd always relied slightly on brute force.  With her help, he tightened up his holds and strikes.


Cheeks flushed, Brooks put her hands on her hips.  “You're getting closer to my weight class, champ.”


The next day, they met the squad.


It was in a gear locker.  Conversation stilled as they entered.


A beautiful woman gave him a frank appraisal.


“Well if it isn't the hot rod himself.”


“More like hot dog to you, Daniels.”


She gave the jokester a toothy smile.  “I prefer all American beef to mechanically separated chicken, Hucks.”


Brooks rolled her eyes.


She gestured to Torah.  “This is Torah, the squad’s Asset.”


“He has many assets,” Daniels said.


“Interrupt me again and I'll show you mine,” Brooks said.


Daniels smiled but didn't reply.


“Brief in 10.”  She concluded.


Gear was checked.  Vests put on.  Torah had been issued a set of thin ceramic armor.  As long as he didn't crank too hard, it wouldn't melt.  He'd trained in it some.


Still felt weird.


He ran a few subdued katas in the small space.  The plates added weight to his movements.  


More force, less reaction time.


He turned.  Daniels was geared up, assault rifle in a sling.


“Nice body suit.  Do I need a safe word or a fire drill?”


“Move out.” Brooks said crisply.


They filed out into the hall.


CHAPTER 6
“Locusts.  A fucking bug hunt.”  Hucks complained.


The armored vehicle bounced on the rocky road.


Brooks scrolled a tablet.  


“This is the highest output farm in the area.  Not an insignificant amount of rice for the state.”


“Think, Hucks.  No more sushi.  Just cold fish on a plate.” Daniels rejoined.


The transport hit a large hole.  As they righted, Torah felt it.


A resonance.  He couldn't see it, but he knew his tattoo had just responded.


The driver swore.  Loudly.  He slammed the brakes.


Brooks pulled up the dash cam. 


“Contact.  Grab those flame units.”


The others strapped on large tanks and grabbed flamethrower nozzles.


“Torah, you're point.”


He chambered out the opening door.


And immediately saw the problem.


A locust the size of a school bus crouched in the road.  But it was wrong somehow.  It seethed with movement.  


That's when he realized it wasn't one big insect, but a collection clinging together.  A massive, dense swarm.


“Cuntilingus.” Hucks said, climbing out after him.


Daniels next, then Brooks.


Torah brought the resonance to several points in his body.


Heat bled outward as the inner flame warmed the ceramic armor.


It would hold long after he stopped.


“Approach flame first, spread out for overlapping fields of fire.  Torah, you guard us.”


Torah approached as the flame units flared to life.  As soon as they came in range, the squad lit up.


An invisible win parted the locusts.  The front edge blackened, but the rest broke apart ahead of the flaming hydrocarbon.


Arcing above, tiny insects reassembled into multiple greyhound sized configurations, plunging down like mortars.


“Flash!”  Torah called.  He directed the resonance to his heart.  A blinding white light ripped out of him.  


The swarm destabilized momentarily.


“Fire!”  Cried Brooks.  Flamethrowers pointed at the sky and hosed it down.  Flaming insects flared and collapsed into soot.


It wasn't enough.


Enough mass made its way to the ground to slam Daniels down.  The form was distorted, barely looking like a locust but it had strength.


Torah's armor was pouring heat now.  He charged.  The others couldn't help without killing her.  But he could.


A leaping tackle took the insect off its prey.  It held together a moment, and he squeezed.  Then it burst apart.


He couldn't help Daniels to her feet.  She'd cook on his gauntlet.  Her face was already flushed from the heat he was outputting.  


He backed off, just in time to see Hucks go down.


A running knee obliterated the locust head, and he swept his arms through the swarming insects.  


He felt them pop against his armor like puffed rice.


Just like that, the swarm retreated.  


Towards the farm in the distance.


“Fuck.”  Brooks said matter-of-factly.


The squad piled into the vehicle.  Torah couldn't.  He'd make it an oven.


“You have to leave me.  I'll catch up.”  He said.  Brooks frowned but nodded.  The hatch closed.  The transport took off, kicking plumes of dust and soot. 


Torah started running.  It was probably 3 miles to the farm in the distance.


But something happened around the halfway point.  He felt a pull.  A different resonance.


It came from the field.  Eaten down as it was, there was no place to hide.


A staff, planted in the ground.  Straight and strong, but unassuming.


He felt a new pressure building.  The air felt thick, like he was pressing through jelly.


His hand hovered over the wooden shaft.  Voices speaking in many languages poured through his head.


He brought the resonance.  He brought the dream of Eden.


And closed his hand.


CHAPTER 7
They rode back in silence.


The swarm had fallen apart after he'd grabbed the staff.  


Crumbled to dust.


Daniels had said precisely two words to him since the fight.


“Thank you.”


There was no debrief.  Just containment protocols for the new artifact.


It resisted separation.


Tongs to grab it heated too hot to hold.


Liquid nitrogen boiled off.


Lead containers glowed red hot.


The dream of Eden calmed it.  Until it was 10 meters from him.


So it leaned against the wall in his room.


Brooks, Hucks and Daniels sat on the ground as he was on his futon, cross legged.


A cart was rolled in.  Victory meal.  Red beans and rice with crayfish bits.


“Think this came from that farm?” Hucks asked.


“The institute prefers local food sources when possible,” Brooks replied.


The staff remained peaceful in his presence.  A quiet gravity came from it when he gave it the dream of Eden.


Then… 2 days into testing, he gave it the sword of fire.


A blade of heated nothing erupted from the tip, turning it into a flaming glaive.


It nearly took off Maeve's head.